---
layout: post
title:  DeepSea
date:   2022-08-22 16:40:16
description: DeepSea Eploration
tags: Personal
categories: Neuroscience Deepsea
---

The deep sea is a vastly unexplored and mysterious realm that holds countless secrets and surprises. Despite being closer and more accessible than deep space, the deep sea remains largely unknown to us. It is home to a diverse range of unique and fascinating creatures, many of which are yet to be discovered. The deep sea also plays a crucial role in regulating the Earth's climate, and is an important source of food and natural resources. In comparison, while deep space may hold the promise of discovering new planets and extraterrestrial life, the vast distances and harsh conditions make it nearly impossible to explore in depth. Therefore, it can be argued that there is much more to be explored and discovered in the deep sea than in deep space.


My interest in the deep sea was piqued by a YouTube video, whether it was an animation or actual footage, I cannot recall. However, the mere thought of sending an unmanned underwater vehicle (UAV) to explore the depths of the ocean sends shivers down my spine, much like the excitement felt when Elon Musk's rocket prepares for lift-off. The prospect of discovering new and unknown species in the deep sea using advanced technology is truly thrilling and captures my imagination.


From the other blog you can find that I am a AI engineer who tried to figure of things how machines can think and solve the problem. But the best brain that the nature have ever produced is the human brain. So I am trying to understand how the brain works and how it can be used to solve the problems. I feel that a starting from a simple micro-organism can help us to build things that can decode the secret.



